Title: It feels like the 50s with all this Chrome
Date: 2009-12-06 12:45
Author: mr.rcollins
Category: blog
Tags: browser, chrome, chromium, firefox, Google
Slug: it-feels-like-the-50s-with-all-this-chrome

![][]Although Firefox has been my default browser for several years,
every so often I try out alternative browsers. A couple of weeks ago I
started to use Chromium (developer builds of Google's Chrome browser)
for OS X and it has now become my default browser.

Google has an obsession with speed. In fact, they have found that a .4
second delay in delivering search results causes a 30% drop in click
throughs. They started working on Chrome to deliver a browser that is
fast and secure. It also offers some other advatages such as isolating
each tab or window into separate processes. This means if a tab or
window crashes, it only affects that tab or window. Bookmarks can now be
synched with your Google account, and extensions are starting to become
available.

One of my requirements for a browser is the ability to run multiple
profiles. I have one browser set for personal use and one set for
professional use (I do try to separate the two, although it is difficult
at times). Chrome supports multiple profiles, so now I can launch the
default profile which contains my personal settings and I can launch a
Mr\_rcollins profile which contains my professional settings.

I've found that Chromium launches faster than any other browser I've
tried. After using it for two weeks, it feels so much quicker than
Firefox 3.5.5.  
Although Firefox has been my default browser for several years, every
so often I try out alternative browsers. A couple of weeks ago I started
to use Chromium (developer builds of Google's Chrome browser) for OS X
and it has now become my default browser.

Google has an obsession with speed. In fact, they have found that a .4
second delay in delivering search results causes a 30% drop in click
throughs. They started working on Chrome to deliver a browser that is
fast and secure. It also offers some other advatages such as isolating
each tab or window into separate processes. This means if a tab or
window crashes, it only affects that tab or window. Bookmarks can now be
synched with your Google account, and extensions are starting to become
available.

One of my requirements for a browser is the ability to run multiple
profiles. I have one browser set for personal use and one set for
professional use (I do try to separate the two, although it is difficult
at times). Chrome supports multiple profiles, now I can launch the
default profile which contains my personal settings and I can launch a
Mr\_rcollins profile which contains my professional settings. I've had
Firefox set up for this for over a year and it works pretty well.

I've found that Chromium launches faster than any other browser I've
tried. After using it for two weeks, it feels so much quicker than
Firefox 3.5.5. You can learn more about Google Chrome [here][];. I use
the [Techcrunch Chromium Updater][] to grab the latest builds for OS X
since Google hasn't released an official beta yet for OS X.

  []: http://ryancollins.org/wp/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/l_275_275_90BDA634-5F16-40B1-861F-A5C62125AB19.jpeg
  [here]: http://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/features.html
  [Techcrunch Chromium Updater]: http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/08/16/our-mac-chromium-updater-stay-up-to-date-on-the-best-versions-of-chrome-for-mac/
